README.md, before:

# MySQL 5.6 JSON Extract

## Functions
The function [json_extract_1](json_extract_1.sql) returns the value matching the first key provided within JSON data

The function [json_extract_search](json_extract_search.sql) returns the value matching the first key provided within JSON data

These functions were designed for MySQL 5.6 as it does not include built-in functions to parse JSON data

## Examples

### Example of `json_extract_1`
Given the JSON object in MySQL:
```
DECLARE @json_data TEXT
SET @json_data = '{ "key1": "value1", "key2": "value2", "key3": "value3" }'
```
To return the value related to "key2":
```
json_extract_1(@json_data, 'key2')
```
which returns:
```
value2
```
### Example of `json_extract_search`
Given the JSON object in MySQL:
```
DECLARE @json_data TEXT
SET @json_data =
'{
  {
    "key": "value1",
    "secret_key": "secret_value1"
  },
  {
    "key": "value2",
    "secret_key": "secret_value2"
  },
  {
    "key": "value3",
    "secret_key": "secret_value3"
  },
}'
```
To return the value of "secret_key", dependent on the associated key/pair of "key" and "value2":
```
json_extract_search(@json_data, 'key', 'value2', 'secret_key')
```
which returns:
```
secret_value2
```

## Considerations

* The functions iterate through possibilities and cap out at 99 keypairs for `json_extract_1` and 99 objects for `json_extract_search`
* If more iterations are needed to search more data, the runtime of `json_extract_search` is not expected to be great for very large datasets

## Licensing and Attribution

This project is licensed under the [GPLv3](LICENSE) license

Original license for `json_extract_1` is licensed under the [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) license and is one-way compatible to GPLv3

Original `json_extract_1` function was taken from [@gaborsch](https://github.com/gaborsch) via https://stackoverflow.com/a/52402431

Commit message:

updated json_extract_search function description
json_extract_search description was the same as json_extract_1

README.md, after:

# MySQL 5.6 JSON Extract

## Functions
The function [json_extract_1](json_extract_1.sql) returns the value matching the first key provided within JSON data

The function [json_extract_search](json_extract_search.sql) returns the value matching the return key that matches the search key and value provided within the same JSON object within JSON data

These functions were designed for MySQL 5.6 as it does not include built-in functions to parse JSON data

## Examples

### Example of `json_extract_1`
Given the JSON object in MySQL:
```
DECLARE @json_data TEXT
SET @json_data = '{ "key1": "value1", "key2": "value2", "key3": "value3" }'
```
To return the value related to "key2":
```
json_extract_1(@json_data, 'key2')
```
which returns:
```
value2
```
### Example of `json_extract_search`
Given the JSON object in MySQL:
```
DECLARE @json_data TEXT
SET @json_data =
'{
  {
    "key": "value1",
    "secret_key": "secret_value1"
  },
  {
    "key": "value2",
    "secret_key": "secret_value2"
  },
  {
    "key": "value3",
    "secret_key": "secret_value3"
  },
}'
```
To return the value of "secret_key", dependent on the associated key/pair of "key" and "value2":
```
json_extract_search(@json_data, 'key', 'value2', 'secret_key')
```
which returns:
```
secret_value2
```

## Considerations

* The functions iterate through possibilities and cap out at 99 keypairs for `json_extract_1` and 99 objects for `json_extract_search`
* If more iterations are needed to search more data, the runtime of `json_extract_search` is not expected to be great for very large datasets

## Licensing and Attribution

This project is licensed under the [GPLv3](LICENSE) license

Original license for `json_extract_1` is licensed under the [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) license and is one-way compatible to GPLv3

Original `json_extract_1` function was taken from [@gaborsch](https://github.com/gaborsch) via https://stackoverflow.com/a/52402431
